The Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI)—also referred to as the “Myers-Briggs personality test” or simply the “Myers-Briggs test”—is a self-reported questionnaire. The test helps people assess their personality using four specific dichotomies, or scales: introversion-extraversion, sensing-intuition, thinking-feeling and judging-perceiving.
The MBTI was first developed in the 1940s by Isabel Briggs Myers and her mother Katharine Cook Briggs, and it’s based on psychologist Carl Jung’s theory of psychological types. The purpose of the test is to “make the theory of psychological types described by C.G. Jung understandable and useful in people’s lives,” according to the Myers & Briggs Foundation. In other words, the MTBI is intended to give clarity and understanding of a person’s personality type in a practical way.
Myers and Briggs first tested friends and family to collect data, workshop the questions and determine how to weigh each answer. In 1951, more than 5,000 medical students across 45 medical schools used the MBTI to help determine which areas of medicine in which they would specialize. Since then, the questionnaire has been used to help people both in and outside the workplace learn more about their personality and the personalities of the people around them.
There are 16 personality types in the MBTI, all of which include a letter for each side of the four scales the person aligns with most. Letters always follow the same order, and scales are abbreviated using the following letters:
Introversion-extraversion is represented by I or E; Sensing-intuition is represented by S or N; Thinking-feeling is represented by T or F; Judging-perceiving is represented by J or P
Each of the scales operates as a spectrum. Although a personality may not fall perfectly into one type, the four-letter type code represents the side of each of the four scales a person most closely fits.
For example, a person who leans toward introversion, intuition, thinking and judging would be considered personality type INTJ. Naturally, there are 15 other personality permutations across these four spectrums.
To determine a person’s four-letter personality code, the MBTI asks questions to help determine which sides of the four scales they most closely fit.
1. Extraversion-Introversion:
This scale helps a person understand where they put their attention and how they get their energy. “Extraversion refers to the tendency to be outgoing and action-oriented while enjoying social interactions and feeling more energized as a result. Introversion lies on the opposite end of the scale and reflects the tendency to be more thought-oriented and withdrawn,” says Vitelli. However, introversion doesn’t always mean the same thing as shy. Introversion can also indicate someone who enjoys “living in their head,” reflecting on ideas, thoughts or memories. These types may enjoy company in small groups rather than large crowds and are often comfortable being alone.
Other common traits of extraverts include:
Feeling comfortable in groups
Being popular or having a large friend group
Not thinking something over before taking action
Common traits of introverts include:
Avoiding action by overthinking and/or contemplating
Feeling removed from the outside world

2. Sensing-Intuition

This scale examines how people take in information from the world around them. “People who prefer sensing tend to be more reality-based and depend on their own senses and what they can learn from hands-on experience,” says Vitelli. “Intuition [type] is more likely to depend on their impressions of the world around them and is more likely to rely on inner feelings to make conclusions.”

Common traits of sensing personalities include:

Remembering accurate snapshots of events
Being a fact-based problem solver
A preference for a realistic “bottom line” approach
Valuing experience more than words and/or symbols
Overlooking potential possibilities due to overanalyzing facts
Common traits of intuition personalities include:

“Reading between the lines”
An interest in new, different experiences
Bouncing between possible scenarios
Valuing impressions, metaphors and symbols more than lived experience
A difficulty bringing possibilities to reality

3. Thinking-Feeling
With this scale, the idea is to understand whether a person focuses more on information as it relates to their five senses or on patterns and interpretations. “People scoring highly on thinking tend to be more logic-based and dependent on facts and objective information,” Vitelli adds. “Feeling individuals are more likely to depend on emotions to conclude people and events.”

Thinking personalities commonly display as:

Enjoying fields where logic is key
Noticing errors or inconsistencies
Searching for logical solutions to problems
A desire to be fair and make decisions based on logic
Believing in direct truth-telling
Not always accounting for people’s emotions or experiences
Being task oriented and appearing indifferent or uncaring
Feeling personalities typically present as:

Enjoying fields involving people or communications
Wanting harmony and becoming nervous around conflict
Having concern for others
Being compassionate and making emotion-based decisions
Valuing people’s emotions and believing in delivering news with tact
Not always communicating difficult truths directly
Appearing indirect, idealistic, or emotional

4.Judging-Perceiving
This scale assesses whether a person prefers more structure in their life or if they’re open to a more flexible lifestyle. “People high on judging are more rigid and inflexible and prefer more structured environments,” says Vitelli. “On the other hand, people high on perceiving tend to be more flexible, open-minded and spontaneous.”

Common displays of judging personalities may include:

Enjoying when things are decided
Being task oriented
Enjoying to-do lists
Having a “work before play” attitude
Planning ahead to avoid rushing or procrastination
Being highly goal oriented, but sometimes missing information due to narrow focus
Perceiving personalities can appear as:

Being open-minded
Being casual or not one to make plans
Mixing work with play
Being productive in bursts of energy
Receiving added stimulation from pressure or deadlines
Having difficulty making decisions